hi guys Carrie Anne here I'm going to
show you a recipe from my batch cooking
chapter in my book it's a roasted tomato
soup it's really really easy it's really
really delicious
and if you make a big pot of it on the
weekend it freezes really really well so
for those days when you don't feel like
cooking grab it out the freezer defrost
it everyone's winner right so first of
all I've preheated an oven to 220
degrees or gas mark 7 and now I'm gonna
take two kilos of these beautiful
tomatoes and I'm just gonna cut them in
half and put them lovingly in this
roasting tray I'm gonna chop the vines
in as well that will give a really
really intense tomato flavor to your
soup once you've roasted them down we're
gonna put them in the trade cut side up
so that when we season them they'll get
all that lovely seasoning net the great
thing about roasting Tomatoes is that
when they're in a really nice hot oven
they start to get all caramelized around
the edges where the natural sugars start
to cook in the tomatoes and then they
get really sweet and sticky and then
they become almost jammy and then the
flavor is like triple concentrated and
it's just tomatoes in paradise right so
that's all of my tomorrows and my vines
in the nice solid roasting tray now I
need a bulb of garlic and I'm literally
just gonna put it on the board and cut
it in half like that and then I'm gonna
put that in the tray as well and all the
ones that have come loose skin stalks
everything goes in and then I'm gonna
need about 8 to 10 sprigs of fresh thyme
and then we're gonna break it up a
little bit and then what will happen is
while this is all roasting the flavors
from the garlic and the thyme will
infuse with the tomatoes and all the
juices that will collect at the bottom
and now I need to add about 4
tablespoons of olive oil and just
drizzle it over now I know 4 tablespoons
it might sound like a lot but remember
this is gonna make a lot of soup and
it's going to serve about eight people
so now the final touch
just a small pinch of salt remember
salts not that great for kids so we
don't want to use too much and a
generous pinch of freshly ground black
pepper now I'm going to put this in the
oven at 220 gas mark 7 which has already
been preheated for about 25 to 30
minutes
our tomatoes are beautifully ready come
and have a look you'll see that they
just starting to capture around the
edges and they've sort of gone all
sticky and squidgy and soft now what we
want to do is we want to take out all
these time stalks and the vines squeeze
the garlic out of its skin because that
garlic now is all sweet and sticky as
well so we don't want to waste it but
the skin won't blend up very well in the
soup so we're just going to take that
out right so we're going to transfer
this over to a nice heavy bottomed pan
now to that I want to add one point
seven litres of vegetable stock right so
what we want to do is we want to bring
that to the boil and then we want to
turn it down and let it simmer for about
20 to 25 minutes just so the tomatoes
can take on the flavor of the stock and
the stock can take on the flavor of the
tomatoes and the garlic it would be one
big party in your pot so I'll see you in
about 20 to 25 minutes right so this has
been simmering away for about 25 minutes
now if you come and have a look you'll
see that the tomatoes have started to
break down into the liquid and then the
liquid started to turn a lovely orange
color I've got a nice basil plant here
so I'm going to leave the nice pretty
leaves at the top for serving and then
I'm going to put the wrist near enough a
bunch of basil into the suit now we've
got the buzz win what I want to do is I
want to use one of these lovely stick
blenders and I'm just gonna blitz this
up
until it's nice and smooth
put it back on a low heat and simmer it
gently for another 25 to 30 minutes just
because we want it to reduce down a bit
more get a little bit thicker and let
those flavors intensify even more so
I'll see you in about half hour
so friends this has been bubbling away
nicely for about half an hour now if you
come in and have a look you'll see that
it's reduced right down this line here
is where it started
so it's reduced down by that much and
I'm going to show you how thickened and
lovely it is so it's thickened right up
so we're ready now to serve and a nice
bowl
now and do you remember earlier on we
kept this basal plot with all these
little teeny tiny basil leaves we just
want to scatter a few over the top just
for that fresh basil flavor nice bit of
color as well and then a knife pinch of
freshly ground pepper just to wake it
all up a little bit and there you have
it my friends my roasted tomato soup
don't forget to like it if you liked it
subscribe if you want it is free and but
in the meantime enjoy yourselves have
fun and I'll see you next time happy
cooking
you